# mathematics

---

General-purpose math utilities for .NET, mostly oriented around game development.

## GoldMeridian.Mathematics

---

Contains primitive math types. Vectors and matrices are source-generated to ensure accuracy and to speed up development.

- [ ] Vectors:
  - [x] relevant vector types:
    - [x] `sbyte`,
    - [x] `byte`,
    - [x] `short`,
    - [x] `ushort`,
    - [x] `int`,
    - [x] `uint`,
    - [x] `long`,
    - [x] `ulong`,
    - [x] `float`,
    - [x] `double`,
    - [x] `bool`;
  - [x] 1-4 lanes:
    - [x] automatic conversion between scalar and 1-lane types,
    - [x] automatic conversion between applicable SIMD intrinsic vectors,
    - [x] padding to align to closest SIMD intrinsic size;
  - [x] swizzling:
    - [x] getters for all possible combinations,
    - [x] setters for combinations without repeat fields;
  - [x] parity with `Vector2/3/4` operators;
  - [x] parity with `Vector2/3/4` public properties;
  - [ ] parity with `Vector2/3/4` public methods (TODO).

- [ ] Matrices:
  - TODO (after vectors).

## GoldMeridian.Mathematics.Iwakura

> "Lain Iwakura" and it has lanes... get it?

---

Lane-agnostic math APIs with a source generator that generates overloads for methods for all viable types. Supports SIMD-width implementations and is designed to closely mirror the .NET SIMD intrinsic APIs to ensure all possible functionality.

Allows you to easily map high-level math functions (think linear interpolation, Bézier curves, anything of that nature) to multiple lanes in parallel without concern for the lane implementations. Concretely-typed overloads (`float`, `Vector2`, `float2`, etc.) will be automatically generated by the source generator for ease-of-use.

TODO, porting from DAYBREAK.
